index.md, before:

---
layout: homepage
title: NCCS
description: Brief site description here
image: /images/nccs-logo.svg
permalink: /
sections:
    - hero:
        title: <font size=8>National Climate Change Secretariat</font>
        background: /images/hero-banner.jpg
        button: Read More
        url: /who-we-are/about-nccs
        key_highlights:
            - title: Mitigation Efforts
              description: Reducing our carbon emissions in all sectors
              url: /singapores-climate-action/mitigation-efforts/
            - title: Adaptation Efforts
              description: Adapting to the impact of climate change
              url: /singapores-climate-action/overview/adaptation-overview/
            - title: Green Growth Opportunities
              description: Harnessing green growth opportunities
              url: /singapores-climate-action/overview/green-growth-opportunities/
            - title: Singapore And International Efforts
              description: Forging international collaborations
              url: /singapores-climate-action/singapore-and-international-efforts/
    - infopic:
        image: /images/pps-banner.jpg
        alt: Members of the Ministry of ABC shaking hands
        title: CLIMATE CHANGE PUBLIC PERCEPTION SURVEY 2019
        description: The National Climate Change Secretariat (NCCS), under the Strategy Group, Prime Minister’s Office, conducted a survey from May to July 2019 to gauge public perception and views on climate change.
        button: Read More
        url: /media/press-release/climate-change-public-perception-survey-2019
    - resources:
      - title: Media
        subtitle: Subtitle
        description: About a sentence worth of description here
        button: View All
---

Commit message:

Index new section and public consultation new page (#147)
* NCCS Demo 13

* NCCS

* NCCS 03

* nccs

* nccs

* nccs7

* nccs8

* nccs9

* nccs10

* Media Articles 2015

* Articles

* Articles

* Articles

* Articles

* Articles10

* Articlesissues

* Articles2018#1173

* Media

* articles2019

* link2019

* footer

* Delete 2019-12-16-media-article-2019.md

* publicconsultation

* articlesandinstagram

* publicconsultationurl

* herobannerandpublicconsultationimage

* highresolution

* resolution

* public-overview

* dropdownmenu

* enumobilescreen

* Sinapores

* publicdateadded

* menuresponsive

* mobileresponsive

* highlight

* edgefootertitle

* urlissues

* Update index.md

* mediapublication

* pressrelease125

* Revert back the font size

* indexpageandpublicnewpage

* Update 6a-public-consultation-overview.md

index.md, after:

---
layout: homepage
title: NCCS
description: Brief site description here
image: /images/nccs-logo.svg
permalink: /
sections:
    - hero:
        title: <font size=8>National Climate Change Secretariat</font>
        background: /images/hero-banner.jpg
        button: Read More
        url: /who-we-are/about-nccs
        key_highlights:
            - title: Mitigation Efforts
              description: Reducing our carbon emissions in all sectors
              url: /singapores-climate-action/mitigation-efforts/
            - title: Adaptation Efforts
              description: Adapting to the impact of climate change
              url: /singapores-climate-action/overview/adaptation-overview/
            - title: Green Growth Opportunities
              description: Harnessing green growth opportunities
              url: /singapores-climate-action/overview/green-growth-opportunities/
            - title: Singapore And International Efforts
              description: Forging international collaborations
              url: /singapores-climate-action/singapore-and-international-efforts/
    - infopic:
        image: /images/leds-response.jpg
        alt: Members of the Ministry of ABC shaking hands
        title: RESPONSE TO FEEDBACK ON SINGAPORE’S LONG-TERM LOW EMISSIONS STRATEGY
        description: The National Climate Change Secretariat (NCCS) conducted a public consultation on Singapore’s Long-Term Low Emissions Development Strategy (LEDS) from 16 July to 30 September 2019. 
        button: Read More
        url: /public-consultation/response-to-feedback-on-singapore's-long-term-low-emissions-development-strategy
    - infopic:
        title: CLIMATE CHANGE PUBLIC PERCEPTION SURVEY 2019
        description: The National Climate Change Secretariat (NCCS), under the Strategy Group, Prime Minister’s Office, conducted a survey from May to July 2019 to gauge public perception and views on climate change.
        button: Read More
        url: /media/press-release/climate-change-public-perception-survey-2019
        image: /images/pps-banner.jpg
        alt: Members of the Ministry of ABC shaking hands
    - resources:
      - title: Media
        subtitle: Subtitle
        description: About a sentence worth of description here
        button: View All
---
