---
layout: post
title: New Green Mark schemes for supermarkets and retail
subtitle: 10 Oct 2012
permalink: /media/press-release/press77
---

### NEW GREEN MARK SCHEMES FOR SUPERMARKETS AND RETAIL

**Singapore, 11 October 2012** - Four green supermarkets and three green retail outlets have been recognised under the BCA Green Mark for Supermarket and BCA Green Mark for Retail schemes respectively. Both schemes were announced by Mr Tan Chuan-Jin, Acting Minister for Manpower and Senior Minister of State for National Development at BCA's new series of green building exhibitions debuting at Lot 1 Shoppers' Mall (Choa Chu Kang).

Under the BCA Green Mark assessment system, projects are rated on five key criteria such as Energy Efficiency, Water Efficiency, Environmental Protection, Indoor Environmental Quality and other Green Features. Points are awarded for incorporating environmentally-friendly features which are better than normal practice. They are then awarded the Platinum, GoldPLUS, Gold or Certified rating based on the points scored under the Green Mark criteria.

**BCA Green Mark for Supermarket**

The scheme was developed to promote and recognize environmentally friendly and sustainable practices and features in supermarket operations. For example, refrigeration accounts for up to 50 per cent of the total energy consumed in a supermarket, where the floor area ranges from 90m<sup>2</sup> to 4,500m<sup>2</sup>. However, pilot studies show that as much as 10 per cent or more of the supermarket's total energy consumption can be reduced with the right design from the start or switching to more energy saving equipment and features along the way, without having to re-design the entire supermarket.

Out of the four supermarkets, 'FairPrice Finest' at Zhong Shan Park has been awarded the Green Mark Platinum, the highest award in this category. The outlet is scheduled to open end of this year. Similarly, another of its 'FairPrice Finest' outlet has been awarded with Green Mark Gold<sup>PLUS</sup>, currently operating at MyVillage, Serangoon Garden, while Fairprice's third outlet at Ang Mo Kio 712 has been certified Gold. Finally, Cold Storage's outlet at Jelita has been rated at Certified level.

Some of the energy saving features at the Platinum award-winning supermarket include an energy-efficient Refrigeration System fitted with compressors controlled by variable frequency drives (VFD), which regulates motor speed according to the cooling demand of the refrigeration system. Each time there is a reduction in motor speed, less power is used.

Similarly, its supermarket at Serangoon Garden also boasts energy efficient features such as refrigeration showcases fitted with doors, electronic expansion valves, anti-sweat control and energy efficient fans which saves more than 20 per cent energy compared to open display cases. The entire supermarket with floor area of 872m2 has also been fitted with LED lighting, inclusive of display cabinets, auto zonal lighting controls and occupancy sensors to conserve energy.

Mr Seah Kian Peng, CEO (Singapore), NTUC FairPrice said, " As an industry leader, doing our part for the environment is one of four pillars in our CSR framework where we look at ways to manage our resources carefully and promote good eco-friendly practices. Standards set by the BCA Green Mark not only serve to set a benchmark and raise awareness on the importance of being green for the industry, it will also raise levels of competency by prompting players to adopt and come up with innovative solutions. Beyond the obvious benefits to our reputation, this certification will spur us on in fulfilling our commitment to doing our part for the environment."

**BCA Green Mark Scheme for Retail**

The retail sector is one of the highest consumers of energy per floor area. Data collected from retail buildings assessed under Green Mark reflected that retail tenants consume approximately 50 per cent of the total energy consumption of a building. The tenant loads within such buildings also lead to high air-conditioning load within a retail mall.

The BCA Green Mark for Retail was developed to recognise the efforts of individual retail tenants for their sustainability efforts. The key criteria are developed to guide and encourage tenants to fit out their shops in a sustainable manner that reduces the operating costs, energy consumption and cooling load whilst maintaining the required aesthetics. It also provides recognition of the retailers' commitment to reduce their environmental impact.

BCA Green Mark Gold<sup>PLUS</sup> recipient, J's Hair Studio, which took over a shop space from a previous tenant, minimised materials wastage by retaining a large portion of the flooring, ceiling and light fixtures during the fit-out process. Moreover, retail tenants can save energy and costs without having to re-design the entire store. For example, the owner of Dressaday, a clothing and apparel boutique, replaced the store's halogen decorative lights with LED lights and achieved 23 per cent reduction in annual electricity bills. It is rated at Certified level, likewise for Royal Silver, a jeweller. Both retailers are located at 313@Somerset.

"Self-motivated proprietors like J's Hair Studio and big players like Fairprice have proved that businesses, big and small, can save energy and cut costs by putting some consideration in the environment we inhabit. Business owners who are also looking at ways to reduce costs can leverage on several green solutions today in the market. Since the introduction of the Green Mark scheme in 2005, the demand for environmentally friendly and sustainable practices are attracting more developments, beyond buildings, and we are pleased to offer these two new Green Mark schemes to business owners," said Dr John Keung, CEO of BCA.

Source: [<a href="https://www.bca.gov.sg/Newsroom/pr11102012_IGBC.html" target="_blank">Building and Construction Authority</a>](https://www.bca.gov.sg/Newsroom/pr11102012_IGBC.html)