---
layout: post
title: Singapore to participate in the C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group as Observer City
subtitle: 22 Mar 2012
permalink: /media/press-release/press96
---

### SINGAPORE TO PARTICIPATE IN THE C40 CITIES CLIMATE LEADERSHIP GROUP AS OBSERVER CITY

**Singapore, 23 March 2012** - Singapore has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the C401 Cities Climate Leadership Group (C40) to participate in the C40 as an observer city.

The C40 is a network of cities committed to implementing meaningful and sustainable climate-related actions locally that will address climate change globally. 58 cities are part of the C40 which include Berlin, Hong Kong, Jakarta, Johannesburg, Los Angeles, London, New York, Sao Paulo, Seoul and Tokyo. C40 collaborates on climate change-related initiatives with organisations such as the World Bank, OECD and the Clinton Climate Initiative.

Singapore was invited to join the C40 in recognition of its achievements in sustainable development and as a global city with a proven record in achieving economic growth and environment sustainability. Due to its unique circumstances as a city-state, Singapore will participate as an observer and will not be party to the communiqué issued by the C40 group. Singapore’s involvement in the C40 will allow Singapore to share its experience on sustainable development and to learn best practices and engage major cities around the world. This is in line with Singapore’s vision to be a climate change resilient global city that is well-positioned for green growth.

Under the MOU, the C40 and Singapore will work together towards the shared goals of reducing global greenhouse gas emissions and supporting adaptation measures to avoid the harmful impacts of climate change. This will include participation in C40 initiatives as well as the development of case studies to facilitate the exchange of knowledge with other cities. For example, C40 has expressed interest in Singapore’s experience in areas such as land transport and water management. Singapore is interested in learning from the best practices of C40 cities in areas such as developing low carbon strategies and deploying solutions to reduce emissions.

<sup>1</sup> For more information on C40, please visit [<a href="https://www.c40.org/" target="_blank">www.c40.org</a>](https://www.c40.org/)