---
layout: post
title: Singapore Takes The Lead For Global Cities To Find New Integrated Solutions
subtitle: 19 Apr 2012
permalink: /media/press-release/press94
---

### APP SOLUTIONS FOR THE ENVIRONMENTSINGAPORE TAKES THE LEAD FOR GLOBAL CITIES TO FIND NEW INTEGRATED SOLUTIONS

**Singapore, 20 April 2012** - Singapore is taking the lead in encouraging cities to find new integrated solutions in resolving pressing urbanisation challenges around the world. For the first time, the World Cities Summit, the Singapore International Water Week and the inaugural CleanEnviro Summit Singapore will be held together from 1 to 5 July 2012. Beyond covering the latest urbanisation challenges and solutions, this expanded platform will see more in-depth discussions on water and waste management strategies and technologies as well.

The three events will offer world leaders a unique opportunity to discuss and chart new directions and solutions for more liveable and sustainable cities of the future. Some 15,000 high-level delegates are expected to attend, with prominent Mayors, government and industry leaders speaking on wide-ranging topics like investing in cities, smart cities of the future, water planning for sustainable and liveable cities, and urbanisation trends and challenges in the next 20 years. Cutting-edge technologies and best practice models will be showcased on water, waste, urban planning, with integrated solutions perspectives. New business partnerships may be formed with the three events enabling government officials and industry solution providers to discuss financing models and new business ventures.

**New focus on integrated solutions**

ntegrated solutions is the new focus for these three events. It is an emerging trend that cities are embracing in addressing pressing urbanisation challenges. Because urbanisation challenges are becoming far more complex, it is no longer enough to invest in separate solutions on water, environment or waste. Cities are increasingly taking on a more holistic approach to tackling the many urbanisation challenges together to achieve sustainable growth and a better quality of life for all.

Singapore is taking the opportunity to facilitate greater discourse and action in this important area with the combined co-location of these three global events. It is already making inroads in integrated solutions with its comprehensive, long-range and holistic approach in urban planning, combining it with resource-efficient policies and technologies. It has also been researching and test-bedding new urban solutions ideas that can be commercialised and replicated elsewhere in six areas: green buildings, energy, waste and water management, using technology for public safety, green networks and developing smart transport systems. Other integrated solutions projects for sustainable development are Punggol Eco-Town, Marina Bay and Jurong Lake District.

Explaining the reason to hold all three events together, Mr Khoo Teng Chye, Executive Director of the Centre for Liveable Cities said, “The World Cities Summit and the Singapore International Water Week are already established events on the global calendar. Their co-location this year along with the inaugural CleanEnviro Summit Singapore is just one of the ways in which Singapore is taking the lead to find new and more holistic ways to achieve clean and sustainable development for global cities. By holding the three events together, we are able to offer a truly integrated platform for the first time, for world leaders to discuss challenges, opportunities and share best practices for sustainable and liveable cities of the future.”

Representing the Singapore International Water Week, Mr Chew Men Leong, Chief Executive of national water agency PUB said, “This strategic co-location of the three events allows for an integrated look at the co-creation of water solutions in the broader context of sustainable and liveable cities which will offer participants richer discussions and more networking opportunities. Henceforth, SIWW will also move in sync with the co-location of the 3 events on a biennial basis to provide a holistic and integrated approach in co-creating solutions for sustainable urban development, and deliver even greater value to our delegates. This also provides greater opportunities for cross pollination of ideas and technologies, access to integrated solutions as well as outreach to a wider pool of policy makers, industry players and other key stakeholders. We have sought preliminary feedback from our partners and stakeholders and they are supportive of a biennial event.”

“The overall outlook for the global water industry is positive, with innovation/R&D, industrial water solutions and water reuse as the key growth areas. SIWW has managed to ride on this growth – we welcomed 13,500 participants from 99 regions/countries in 2011, a growth of almost 60 per cent from the inaugural event in 2008,” added Mr Chew.

Mr Andrew Tan, Chief Executive Officer of the National Environment Agency said, “Awareness of the environment is growing in Asia and Singapore is well-positioned to foster greater dialogue and cooperation in this area. The inaugural CleanEnviro Summit Singapore hopes to provide such a platform for high-level decision makers, regulators, industry players as well as community stakeholders to come together to develop practical and innovative solutions for sustainable growth. In particular, growing waste volumes in the region as a result of rapid urbanisation and growing affluence and unsustainable waste management practices could undermine the quality of life in the region. We hope that through the unique combination of CleanEnviro Summit Singapore and WasteMET Asia, we can promote better waste management practices and encourage greater use of waste as a resource in the region. We believe that both growth and sustainability can co-exist if we adopt an integrated approach to development.”

Mr Ng Lang, Chief Executive Officer of the Urban Redevelopment Authority said, “The World Cities Summit has been attracting top government and industry leaders from around the world since it started in 2008. The third run this year is taking place at an exciting time when the pace of urbanisation in the region is accelerating, and cities are looking for solutions to address urbanisation challenges. Topics discussed are on the pulse of challenges cities are facing. Discourse is expected to be richer and more in-depth, with new insights on the future of sustainable cities. We also hope to facilitate meaningful dialogue between government and industry providers to find new business and collaboration opportunities in integrated solutions.”

**About World Cities Summit, Singapore International Water Week and CleanEnviro Summit Singapore**

The third edition of the World Cities Summit, the fifth Singapore International Water Week and the inaugural CleanEnviro Summit Singapore will be held from 1 to 5 July 2012 at Sands Expo & Convention Center, Marina Bay Sands, in Singapore. All three events provide an integrated global platform for government and industry leaders to share solutions for sustainable urban development and the latest innovations in water and clean environment solutions. The co-location of the three events will enable exhibitors and participants to explore synergies, network and forge partnerships with a wider range of global industry leaders, policy makers and experts. Together, the three events showcase Singapore’s global thought leadership in sustainable development.

Source: [<a href="https://www.nea.gov.sg/" target="_blank">National Environment Agency</a>](https://www.nea.gov.sg/)