---
layout: post
title: Singapore keen to further global renewable energy efforts
subtitle: 17 Jan 2012
permalink: /media/press-release/press107
---

### SINGAPORE KEEN TO FURTHER GLOBAL RENEWABLE ENERGY EFFORTS

**Singapore, 17 January 2012** - Singapore has sought membership to the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) as part of its ongoing efforts with the global community to develop renewable energy. IRENA, an intergovernmental organisation and key global platform for the promotion of renewable energy, will allow Singapore to actively participate in the global discourse on this matter.

Announcing this at the 5th World Future Energy Summit (WFES) in Abu Dhabi on Monday, Minister in the Prime Minister’s Office and Second Minister for Home Affairs and Trade & Industry, Mr S Iswaran said, “Our membership in IRENA will allow Singapore to raise our level of participation in the global clean energy dialogue and learn from the experiences of other countries.”

As an island-state with no indigenous energy resource, Singapore imports almost all of its energy. In this regard, Mr Iswaran told participants of the summit that Singapore is actively exploring ways to diversify its energy portfolio to include clean energy sources, such as solar energy. By seeking membership to IRENA, Singapore can further build up knowledge and expertise in renewable energy to mitigate its energy constraints and collaborate with the global community on the development of renewable energy technologies and initiatives.

The summit also discussed other energy issues such as managing energy demand and fostering private-public sector collaborations. At a ministerial panel on governments’ role in global clean energy economy, Mr Iswaran shared with summit participants on Singapore’s strategies to manage our energy balance between economic competitiveness, environmental sustainability and energy security.

While in Abu Dhabi, Mr Iswaran also met with other Ministers and officials from the United Arab Emirates including the Minister of Energy, UAE, HE Mohammed Bin Dha’en Al Hamili. Both ministers discussed potential areas of collaboration between the two countries in the energy sector, as well as how intergovernmental platforms such as IRENA could contribute towards the dialogue on renewable energy amongst their members. Mr Iswaran, accompanied by officials from the Ministry of Trade and Industry and the Energy Market Authority, is in Abu Dhabi from 16 to 17 January 2012.

**About IRENA**

Headquartered in Abu Dhabi, IRENA is an intergovernmental organisation established in January 2009 to promote the use of renewable energy. It facilitates access to global information on renewable energy, including technical and economic data, and encourages sharing of best practices and experiences in the implementation of renewable energy projects and policies. To date, it has 155 Signatories. 84 States, including the United States, and the European Union are Members of the Agency.

Source: [<a href="https://www.mti.gov.sg/" target="_blank">Ministry of Trade and Industry </a>](www.mti.gov.sg/)