---
layout: post
title: National Climate Change Competition 2012 presents opportunities for students to address climate change through technological innovations and individual actions
subtitle: 18 Mar 2012
permalink: /media/press-release/press98
---

### NATIONAL CLIMATE CHANGE COMPETITION 2012 PRESENTS OPPORTUNITIES FOR STUDENTS TO ADDRESS CLIMATE CHANGE THROUGH TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATIONS AND INDIVIDUAL ACTIONS

**Singapore, 19 March 2012** - The National Climate Change Secretariat (NCCS) launched the National Climate Change Competition (NCCC) 2012 today for students in schools and tertiary institutions. The theme of the competition is “Singapore: A Climate Change Resilient City”. The competition, which aims to raise awareness on climate change among the youth, comprises a Short Film Challenge and a Technology Project Challenge. The competition is supported by the Ministry of Education (MOE), the Building and Construction Authority (BCA), the National Environment Agency (NEA), the National Research Foundation (NRF), and the National Youth Achievement Award Council (NYAA).

As a small and low-lying island, Singapore is vulnerable to the effects of climate change. Everyone has a stake in addressing climate change as we will be affected directly or indirectly by its impact. The NCCC 2012 invites students to address the issue through technological innovations and individual actions. It also reinforces the message that positive steps can be taken to slow down the pace of climate change if everyone works together on the issue. The competition encourages students to apply what they understand of climate change and its impacts, and propose ways to reduce carbon emissions either through the use of technology, or individual actions.

“In a recent public perception survey commissioned by NCCS, a large majority of the respondents felt a sense of responsibility in playing their part to address climate change. In fact, three in four surveyed said they were motivated by the need to preserve the environment for future generations. This competition provides an avenue for our youths to express their ideas to address the challenges of climate change. Through the competition, we hope that their enthusiasm and passion to create a sustainable future for Singapore will inspire and influence others to take action as well.” said Mr Tan Yong Soon, Permanent Secretary (National Climate Change).

**Short Film Challenge**

The NCCC 2012 Short Film Challenge is open to students studying in primary and secondary schools, junior colleges, centralised institute (CI), institutes of technical education (ITEs), polytechnics and universities. It invites video entries of up to 5 minutes length that explain the cause and effects of climate change and how individuals can reduce their carbon footprints. The closing date for submission of entries is 7 May 2012.

**Technology Project Challenge**

Upper secondary school students, and students from junior colleges, CI, ITEs, polytechnics and universities, including post-graduate students, are invited to take part in the NCCC 2012 Technology Project Challenge. The Challenge seeks innovative project ideas that will result in workable solutions – through the use of technology including science, engineering, IT and product design – that can help reduce carbon emissions. The closing date is 25 June 2012.

Teams that are selected to enter the final stage of the competition will be mentored by members of the local research and innovation community in a closed-door workshop, and given another four months to develop a prototype for final judging.

Cash prizes will be awarded to winners of the Short Film Challenge and the Technology Project Challenge. The prizes are as follows:

### Prizes: National Climate Change Competition 2012

**SHORT FILM CHALLENGE**

**Tertiary Institutions**

* 1st prize: $2,000	
* 2nd prize: $1,500
* 3rd prize: $1,000

**JCs/CI/ITEs**

* 1st prize: $1,500
* 2nd prize: $1,200
* 3rd prize: $900

**Secondary Schools**

* 1st prize: $1,200
* 2nd prize: $1,200
* 3rd prize: $800

**Primary Schools**

* 1st prize: $1,000
* 2nd prize: $800
* 3rd prize: $500

###TECHNOLOGY PROJECT CHALLENGE

**Tertiary Institutions**

* 1st prize: $4,000	
* 2nd prize: $3,000
* 3rd prize: $2,000
* Merit prizes: $1,000 (x2 teams)

**Upper Secondary/JC/CI/ITE**

* 1st prize: $3,000
* 2nd prize: $2,000
* 3rd prize: $1,000
* Merit prizes: $500 (x2 teams)

More information on the NCCC 2012 Short Film Challenge and Technology Project Challenge, as well as the registration forms, can be found on the NCCC 2012 website.