---
layout: post
title: Singapore's ratification of the Paris Agreement
subtitle: 21 Oct 2016
permalink: /media/press-release/press22
---

### SINGAPORE'S RATIFICATION OF THE PARIS AGREEMENT

**21 October 2016** - Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr Vivian Balakrishnan deposited Singapore’s instrument of ratification of the Paris Agreement during the High-level Event on the Entry into Force of the Agreement at the United Nations Headquarters in New York on 21 September 2016. The event was organised by United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.

Singapore’s ratification of the Agreement is a further affirmation of our support and commitment for climate action. This follows the signing of the Agreement by Minister Balakrishnan in New York on 22 April 2016, together with representatives from 174 other countries. The unity of purpose demonstrated by the international community marks a major milestone in global climate action. It has contributed towards bringing the Agreement into force. Parties will now work towards its universal and effective implementation.

By ratifying the Agreement, Singapore has formalised its pledge to reduce its Emissions Intensity by 36 per cent from 2005 levels by 2030 and to stabilise emissions with the aim of peaking around 2030. This pledge builds on our existing commitment to reduce, by 2020, greenhouse gas emissions by 16 per cent from the business-as-usual level, which Singapore is on track to meet.

Singapore released its Climate Action Plan in July this year to outline the various measures to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions and enhance resilience to climate change. Improving energy efficiency will continue to be Singapore’s key strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. There are plans to enhance energy efficiency across all sectors, including the power generation, industry, buildings, transport, household, waste and water sectors.