---
layout: post
title: National Climate Change Competition 2016 - Envisioning Singapore as a Climate-Friendly City in Year 2030
subtitle: 31 Mar 2016
permalink: /media/press-release/press29
---

### NATIONAL CLIMATE CHANGE COMPETITION 2016: ENVISIONING SINGAPORE AS A CLIMATE-FRIENDLY CITY IN YEAR 2030

How will a low-carbon and climate-resilient Singapore look like in 2030? In what ways will future innovations allow Singapore to grow and prosper without increasing our carbon footprint? What can the youths of today do to turn this vision into reality? These are questions that participants in the National Climate Change Competition (NCCC) 2016 will need to answer using their imagination and creative video making skills.

Organised by the National Climate Change Secretariat (NCCS), the NCCC is a video competition where students are invited to produce a short video based on a different climate change related theme each year. The theme of this year’s competition, “Singapore 2030: A Climate-Friendly City”, draws on the recently concluded global climate agreement.

“Singapore has set its sights on transforming itself into a climate-friendly city state by 2030,” said Mr Yuen Sai Kuan, Director of Corporate Affairs Division, NCCS referring to Singapore's pledge to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions per GDP dollar by 36 per cent from 2005 levels by 2030, and to stabilise its emissions with the aim of peaking. “Every one of us can contribute to achieving this ambitious goal by conserving energy and reducing Singapore’s carbon footprint. Through this competition, we hope that our students and youths will learn more about the challenges and opportunities of addressing climate change, and be inspired to bring the vision of a climate-friendly city to fruition,” he added.

The NCCC will comprise three categories:

* Primary Schools

* Secondary Schools and Junior Colleges; and

* Institutes of Higher Learning (ITEs, polytechnics and universities)

Students can register for the competition at www.nccc.gov.sg by 9 May 2016.

The best videos will stand to win up to $4,000 in cash prizes. Three “Viewers’ Choice” awards will also be presented to the most popular videos decided via a public voting exercise on NCCS’ Climate Change SG Facebook page. Details of the competition are at [<a href="https://www.nccs.gov.sg/docs/default-source/news-documents/nccc2016_annex.pdf" target="_blank">Annex</a>](https://www.nccs.gov.sg/docs/default-source/news-documents/nccc2016_annex.pdf).

The results of the competition will be announced in an award ceremony held in November 2016.

___

**About the National Climate Change Secretariat**

The NCCS was set up as a dedicated agency under the Prime Minister’s Office on 1 July 2010 to coordinate Singapore’s domestic and international policies, plans and actions on climate change so as to secure a sustainable living environment for our future generations. NCCS will achieve this by adopting a Whole-of-Government approach and working with the People and Private sectors to devise and implement cost-effective mitigation and adaptation solutions, reap the opportunities arising from addressing climate change challenges and contribute towards global efforts to address climate change. For more information, please visit www.nccs.gov.sg.About the National Climate Change Competition

**About the National Climate Change Competition**

The annual National Climate Change Competition (NCCC) is part of NCCS’ outreach efforts to raise awareness and to encourage individual action on climate change in Singapore. Into its sixth year, this year’s competition is organised by NCCS, in partnership with the Ministry of Education and the National Youth Achievement Award Council. Visit www.nccc.gov.sg for more information. 