---
layout: post
title: Minister Masagos Zulkifli to attend the AOSIS ministerial meeting on climate change, Malé, Maldives
subtitle: 09 Oct 2017
permalink: /media/press-release/press12
---

### MINISTER MASAGOS ZULKIFLI TO ATTEND THE AOSIS MINISTERIAL MEETING ON CLIMATE CHANGE, MALÉ, MALDIVES

**9 October 2017** - Minister for the Environment and Water Resources Mr Masagos Zulkifli will attend the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) ministerial meeting on climate change<sup>[1]</sup> in Malé, Maldives, on 10 October 2017.

The AOSIS ministerial meeting on climate change is an informal platform for Ministers of the AOSIS member states to exchange views on international climate change issues. The Maldives, in its capacity as the Chair of the AOSIS, is organizing this meeting in cooperation with the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA). It will focus on issues related to renewable energy in the context of the implementation of the nationally determined contributions under the Paris Agreement as well as preparation for the year-end 23rd Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP-23) and its associated meetings<sup>[2]</sup> under the Fijian presidency.

Minister Masagos will be accompanied by officials from the Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources and the National Climate Change Secretariat, Strategy Group, Prime Minister’s Office.

___


[1] AOSIS is a coalition of small island and low-lying coastal countries. It functions as a negotiating bloc for small island developing States within the United Nations system, including the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Singapore is a member of AOSIS.

[2] These include the 13th Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (CMP-13) and the second session of the 1st Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (CMA 1-2).

Source: [<a href="https://www.mewr.gov.sg/news/minister-masagos-zulkifli-to-attend-the-aosis-ministerial-meeting-on-climate-change--mal--maldives--10-october-2017" target="_blank">Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources</a>](https://www.mewr.gov.sg/news/minister-masagos-zulkifli-to-attend-the-aosis-ministerial-meeting-on-climate-change--mal--maldives--10-october-2017)