---
layout: post
title: Speech by Mr Niam Chiang Meng, Permanent Secretary (National Climate Change) at the Award Ceremony of the National Climate Change Competition (NCCC) 2012 Technology Project Challenge and Launch of the NCCC 2013 on 19 February 2013
subtitle: 19 Feb 2013
permalink: /media/speeches/speech82
---

### SPEECH BY MR NIAM CHIANG MENG, PERMANENT SECRETARY (NATIONAL CLIMATE CHANGE) AT THE AWARD CEREMONY OF THE NATIONAL CLIMATE CHANGE COMPETITION (NCCC) 2012 TECHNOLOGY PROJECT CHALLENGE AND LAUNCH OF THE NCCC 2013 ON 19 FEBRUARY 2013

Distinguished guests,

Teachers and students,

Ladies and gentlemen.

I am happy to join you today at the award ceremony of the National Climate Change Competition 2012 Technology Project Challenge and the launch of competition for this year.

**National Climate Change Competition (NCCC)**

Tackling climate change is a complex challenge. It requires everyone to do their part, by reducing their carbon footprint and by preparing for climate change. Our youths can play an important role in our efforts to promote climate change awareness and action, through platforms such as the National Climate Change Competition.

Indeed, the competition is an important avenue for students at all levels to express their ideas on climate change-related issues. It also builds environmental stewardship among young Singaporeans. I am therefore pleased that many of you have come forward with your proposals on how you can make a difference.

I would like to congratulate the winners of the National Climate Change Competition 2012 Technology Project Challenge. I am impressed by our youths’ energy and enthusiasm to develop their ideas into prototypes to address climate change. The ideas utilise technology in different ways to achieve greater energy efficiency, reduce emissions and mitigate climate change.

Some of the ideas are innovative, but also simple and practical to implement. The eco-advertisement board developed by the Institute of Technical Education (ITE) College Central is a good example. The team from the National University of Singapore (NUS) sought to address the challenge of providing a comfortable indoor environment in our hot and humid climate through innovative and energy-efficient dehumidification technology. Many of the teams also learnt entrepreneurial skills and how technology could be deployed commercially.

**Launch of National Climate Change Competition 2013**

This morning, we will also be launching the National Climate Change Competitions 2013. We would like to tap on our youths’ creativity to produce short videos to inspire and influence others to take action. The competition theme, “Be the Change. It Starts with You.” is appropriate and timely. To effectively address climate change, each individual’s actions count.

**Role of Youths in Climate Change**

We have with us today many young activists and leaders of tomorrow who have stepped up to contribute, through your ideas, leadership and actions. You can be our advocates and agents of change. You understand your peers better and can help us to spread the message. You can try new, innovative ways to address climate change. Or you can organise activities through your school or community clubs to encourage your friends, family members and the rest of the community to take action to reduce emissions.

NCCS will continue to engage our youths through various platforms. For instance, besides this competition, we have launched a Climate Change SG Facebook page where you can share your ideas to tackle climate change with your friends and other fans. Through the social media, you can build a virtual community where more people are informed of climate change and its impact, as well as be connected to take action against climate change.

**Conclusion**

In conclusion, I would like to recognise the efforts of each of you here today, for stepping forward to be the change. Let it start with each of us. Together, we will make a difference, to build a more eco-friendly Singapore for ourselves and future generations.

Thank you.

