---
title: Speech by Singapore's Ambassador for Climate Action at the Net Zero
  Delivery Summit
permalink: /speech-by-singapore-s-ambassador-for-climate-action-at-the-net-zero-delivery-summit/
date: 2025-06-24
layout: post
description: Speech by Singapore's Ambassador for Climate Action at the Net Zero
  Delivery Summit
image: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<p>SPEECH BY SINGAPORE'S AMBASSADOR FOR CLIMATE ACTION AT THE NET ZERO DELIVERY
SUMMIT, LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM, 23 JUNE 2025</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Two Levers to Unlock Transition Finance</strong>
<br>
</p>
<p>Ravi Menon
<br>Ambassador for Climate Action, Singapore
<br>
</p>
<p><em>Speech at Net Zero Delivery Summit</em>
<br><em>Guildhall, London, United Kingdom</em>
<br><em>23 June 2025</em>
<br>
</p>
<p>Distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen.
<br>
<br><strong><em>Transition finance – especially in developing countries - remains severely inadequate.</em></strong>
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; We are still about 1.5 trillion US dollars
short each year of what is required to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement.
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Public capital is willing but insufficient
to bridge the gap; private capital is sufficient but not willing.</p>
<p>Why is transition finance not flowing at the scale and pace needed?
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; one, the <strong><em>cost of capital is too high</em></strong>.&nbsp;
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; two, the <strong><em>carbon price is not high enough</em></strong>.&nbsp;
<br>
</p>
<p>There are two key levers to unlock the transition finance necessary for
global decarbonisation:
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <strong><em>blended finance to address the cost of capital; and</em></strong>
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <strong><em>carbon credits to address the lack of a carbon price.</em></strong>
<br>
</p>
<p><strong><em>Blended finance is about synergising public-private-philanthropic capital to make transition projects bankable.</em></strong>
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Today, too much public capital – be it
from sovereigns or multilateral development banks – is going into bankable
projects that private capital can finance.
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; A far more effective use of scarce public
capital is to help reduce the risk of <em>marginally</em> bankable transition
projects and attract multiples of private capital to these projects.
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Public and philanthropic capital should
aim to be <em>catalytic not duplicative</em>.
<br>
</p>
<p><strong><em>Blended finance uses a combination of catalytic capital and technical assistance to catalyse private commercial capital</em></strong>.
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Catalytic capital could be in the form
of grants, guarantees, or financing at below market rates. By helping to
absorb first-loss risk, it improves project bankability, thereby attracting
private commercial capital.
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Technical assistance - in the form of
project development expertise, capacity building, and institutional support
– can also help to reduce risk, strengthen confidence, and improve bankability.
<br>
</p>
<p><strong><em>This is why Singapore launched a blended finance platform called FAST-P, or Financing Asia’s Transition Partnership.</em></strong>
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; FAST-P will support green and transition
projects in Asia, from phasing out coal and strengthening grid infrastructure
to electrifying transportation and decarbonising industrial processes.
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The Singapore Government has pledged 500
million US dollars as concessional capital to be matched dollar for dollar
by other sources of concessional capital.
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The aim is to use this 1 billion dollar
base of concessional capital to crowd in four times more private capital
for a total fund size of 5 billion US dollars.
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; FAST-P has attracted both sovereign and
philanthropic funds, which has in turn motivated banks and asset managers
to come onboard.&nbsp;
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; FAST-P is making good progress towards
its 5 billion dollar target.
<br>
</p>
<p>The second key lever to unlock private finance for transition is <strong>carbon credits</strong>.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carbon credits are a market-driven solution to bridge the financing gap, particularly when policy and economic incentives are lacking</em>.</strong>
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; On the supply side, carbon credits are
generated by mitigation activities that reduce or remove carbon emissions.&nbsp;
If not for the revenue generated from these credits these activities would
not have occurred.
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; On the demand side, entities may want
to purchase such credits to help offset their hard-to-abate residual emissions.
<br>
</p>
<p><strong><em>This convergence of demand and supply creates a win-win situation globally.</em></strong>
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; For developing countries where financing
needs far outpace available resources, carbon credits create an additional
pathway to fund mitigation projects.
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; For sovereign and corporate buyers, credits
offer a transparent and credible way to meet emissions reduction targets.
<br>
</p>
<p><strong><em>Yes, global carbon markets have not been functioning well.</em></strong>
</p>
<p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; On the supply side, there are valid concerns
about the environmental integrity of some of the carbon credits being generated.
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; On the demand side, there is also a lack
of consensus regarding how companies can or cannot use credits to meet
their net zero targets.</p>
<p>But we must not throw the baby out with the bathwater.&nbsp; We need to
tackle these issues comprehensively – and in close partnership.&nbsp; I
am happy to say this effort is well underway.
<br>
</p>
<p><strong><em>The supply-side integrity issues are being addressed systematically.</em></strong>
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; There is growing consensus on what a high-quality
carbon credit looks like, thanks to Article 6.4, ICVCM, and CORSIA setting
global standards.
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The World Bank has been providing technical
assistance and capacity building for carbon projects in many developing
countries.
<br>
</p>
<p><strong><em>Singapore has been working with partners to promote high-integrity transition credits.</em></strong>
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; This is a new class of credits to channel
finance towards transition projects.
<br>
</p>
<p><strong><em>A good use case of transition credits is phasing out coal in Asia.</em></strong>
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Most of the coal-fired power plants in
Asia are young and have an operational lifetime of at least 30 years, making
early closure commercially unviable.
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; But if left operational, these plants
will exhaust two-thirds of the carbon budget remaining to keep global temperatures
below 1.5 degrees Celsius.
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The solution is to provide incentives
for the early retirement of these plants, replacing them with renewables.
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; If we can generate transition credits
from the emissions reduction attributed to the early closure of coal plants,
we can finance the managed phase-out of coal in Asia.
<br>
</p>
<p><strong><em>Singapore is working with partners to test the feasibility of transition credits.</em></strong>
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; We are doing so with two pilots involving
coal-fired plants in the Philippines.
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; We hope that sovereigns, companies, and
standard setters recognise the potential of transition credits, and work
together to stimulate demand for such credits.
<br>
</p>
<p><strong><em>On the demand side, Singapore has signed agreements with seven other countries to buy carbon credits compliant with Article 6 of the Paris Agreement</em></strong>.
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; As an added demand incentive, carbon tax-liable
companies in Singapore can offset up to 5% of their taxable emissions with
Article 6 compliant carbon credits.
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; When the government and carbon tax-liable
companies in Singapore purchase these credits, they are contributing to
decarbonisation efforts in our partner countries.
<br>
</p>
<p><strong><em>But demand for compliance credits alone is not enough.&nbsp;</em></strong>
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; We need to re-ignite demand for voluntary
credits too, to generate the financing needed for decarbonisation in the
Global South.
<br>
</p>
<p><strong><em>Governments need to step in to encourage strong voluntary demand for carbon credits</em></strong>.
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Following the UK’s lead, Singapore published
last week guidance on how companies in Singapore can use carbon credits
alongside a credible decarbonisation plan.
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; But it’s not enough that just the UK and
Singapore governments do this.&nbsp; More countries need to step forward
to provide guidance on the use of carbon credits<strong>.</strong>
<br>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Our two countries have been engaging partners
and look forward to announcing the fruits of our efforts tomorrow.
<br>
<br>Thank you.</p>
<p></p>