---
title: Speech by Singapore's Ambassador for Climate Action at the Net Zero
  Delivery Summit
permalink: /speech-by-singapore-s-ambassador-for-climate-action-at-the-net-zero-delivery-summit/
date: 2025-06-23
layout: post
description: Speech by Singapore's Ambassador for Climate Action at the Net Zero
  Delivery Summit
image: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<p><strong>SPEECH BY SINGAPORE'S AMBASSADOR FOR CLIMATE ACTION AT THE NET ZERO DELIVERY SUMMIT, LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM, 23 JUNE 2025</strong>
</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>Two Levers to Unlock Transition Finance</strong>
<br>
</p>
<p>Distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen.
<br>
<br><strong><em>Transition finance – especially in developing countries - remains severely inadequate.</em></strong>
</p>
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p>We are still about 1.5 trillion US dollars short each year of what is
required to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Public capital is willing but insufficient to bridge the gap; private
capital is sufficient but not willing.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>Why is transition finance not flowing at the scale and pace needed?</p>
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p>one, the <strong><em>cost of capital is too high</em></strong>.&nbsp;</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>two, the <strong><em>carbon price is not high enough</em></strong>.&nbsp;
<br>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>There are two key levers to unlock the transition finance necessary for
global decarbonisation:</p>
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p><strong><em>blended finance to address the cost of capital; and</em></strong>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong><em>carbon credits to address the lack of a carbon price.</em></strong>
<br>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p><strong><em>Blended finance is about synergising public-private-philanthropic capital to make transition projects bankable.</em></strong>
</p>
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p>Today, too much public capital – be it from sovereigns or multilateral
development banks – is going into bankable projects that private capital
can finance.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>A far more effective use of scarce public capital is to help reduce the
risk of <em>marginally</em> bankable transition projects and attract multiples
of private capital to these projects.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Public and philanthropic capital should aim to be <em>catalytic not duplicative</em>.
<br>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p><strong><em>Blended finance uses a combination of catalytic capital and technical assistance to catalyse private commercial capital</em></strong>.</p>
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p>Catalytic capital could be in the form of grants, guarantees, or financing
at below market rates. By helping to absorb first-loss risk, it improves
project bankability, thereby attracting private commercial capital.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Technical assistance - in the form of project development expertise, capacity
building, and institutional support – can also help to reduce risk, strengthen
confidence, and improve bankability.
<br>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p><strong><em>This is why Singapore launched a blended finance platform called FAST-P, or Financing Asia’s Transition Partnership.</em></strong>
</p>
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p>FAST-P will support green and transition projects in Asia, from phasing
out coal and strengthening grid infrastructure to electrifying transportation
and decarbonising industrial processes.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>The Singapore Government has pledged 500 million US dollars as concessional
capital to be matched dollar for dollar by other sources of concessional
capital.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>The aim is to use this 1 billion dollar base of concessional capital to
crowd in four times more private capital for a total fund size of 5 billion
US dollars.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>FAST-P has attracted both sovereign and philanthropic funds, which has
in turn motivated banks and asset managers to come onboard.&nbsp;</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>FAST-P is making good progress towards its 5 billion dollar target.
<br>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>The second key lever to unlock private finance for transition is <strong>carbon credits</strong>.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carbon credits are a market-driven solution to bridge the financing gap, particularly when policy and economic incentives are lacking</em>.</strong>
</p>
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p>On the supply side, carbon credits are generated by mitigation activities
that reduce or remove carbon emissions.&nbsp; If not for the revenue generated
from these credits these activities would not have occurred.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the demand side, entities may want to purchase such credits to help
offset their hard-to-abate residual emissions.
<br>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p><strong><em>This convergence of demand and supply creates a win-win situation globally.</em></strong>
</p>
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p>For developing countries where financing needs far outpace available resources,
carbon credits create an additional pathway to fund mitigation projects.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>For sovereign and corporate buyers, credits offer a transparent and credible
way to meet emissions reduction targets.
<br>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p><strong><em>Yes, global carbon markets have not been functioning well.</em></strong>
</p>
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p>On the supply side, there are valid concerns about the environmental integrity
of some of the carbon credits being generated.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the demand side, there is also a lack of consensus regarding how companies
can or cannot use credits to meet their net zero targets.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>But we must not throw the baby out with the bathwater.&nbsp; We need to
tackle these issues comprehensively – and in close partnership.&nbsp; I
am happy to say this effort is well underway.
<br>
</p>
<p><strong><em>The supply-side integrity issues are being addressed systematically.</em></strong>
</p>
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p>There is growing consensus on what a high-quality carbon credit looks
like, thanks to Article 6.4, ICVCM, and CORSIA setting global standards.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>The World Bank has been providing technical assistance and capacity building
for carbon projects in many developing countries.
<br>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p><strong><em>Singapore has been working with partners to promote high-integrity transition credits.</em></strong>
</p>
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p>This is a new class of credits to channel finance towards transition projects.
<br>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p><strong><em>A good use case of transition credits is phasing out coal in Asia.</em></strong>
</p>
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p>Most of the coal-fired power plants in Asia are young and have an operational
lifetime of at least 30 years, making early closure commercially unviable.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>But if left operational, these plants will exhaust two-thirds of the carbon
budget remaining to keep global temperatures below 1.5 degrees Celsius.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>The solution is to provide incentives for the early retirement of these
plants, replacing them with renewables.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>If we can generate transition credits from the emissions reduction attributed
to the early closure of coal plants, we can finance the managed phase-out
of coal in Asia.
<br>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p><strong><em>Singapore is working with partners to test the feasibility of transition credits.</em></strong>
</p>
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p>We are doing so with two pilots involving coal-fired plants in the Philippines.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>We hope that sovereigns, companies, and standard setters recognise the
potential of transition credits, and work together to stimulate demand
for such credits.
<br>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p><strong><em>On the demand side, Singapore has signed agreements with seven other countries to buy carbon credits compliant with Article 6 of the Paris Agreement</em></strong>.</p>
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p>As an added demand incentive, carbon tax-liable companies in Singapore
can offset up to 5% of their taxable emissions with Article 6 compliant
carbon credits.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>When the government and carbon tax-liable companies in Singapore purchase
these credits, they are contributing to decarbonisation efforts in our
partner countries.
<br>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p><strong><em>But demand for compliance credits alone is not enough.&nbsp;</em></strong>
</p>
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p>We need to re-ignite demand for voluntary credits too, to generate the
financing needed for decarbonisation in the Global South.
<br>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p><strong><em>Governments need to step in to encourage strong voluntary demand for carbon credits</em></strong>.</p>
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p>Following the UK’s lead, Singapore published last week guidance on how
companies in Singapore can use carbon credits alongside a credible decarbonisation
plan.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>But it’s not enough that just the UK and Singapore governments do this.&nbsp;
More countries need to step forward to provide guidance on the use of carbon
credits<strong>.</strong>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Our two countries have been engaging partners and look forward to announcing
the fruits of our efforts tomorrow.
<br>
<br>Thank you.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p></p>