---
layout: post
title:  The Straits Times Tackling climate change starts at home Masagos
subtitle: 24 Nov 2018
permalink: /media/news/test6
---

### THE STRAITS TIMES: TACKLING CLIMATE CHANGE STARTS AT HOME: MASAGOS

By **David Fogarty**

*Call to change habits, especially on recycling, rather than throw things into rubbish chute*

Extreme weather, crop losses, higher sea levels - the price of global warming and a 1.5 deg C temperature rise as early as 2030 is a frightening prospect.

Tackling the problem, however, presents an opportunity that could transform the way Singaporeans live and how the economy functions for the better, said Environment and Water Resources Minister Masagos Zulkifli.

It will take not just effort from governments and industries, but also for people to change their habits at home, especially on recycling. "The next holy grail is our households," he told The Sunday Times in an interview, in which he outlined the challenges of a warming world. "For the longest time, people have had this magic hole in the wall and they just throw something in... and we incinerate it," he said, referring to the rubbish chutes ubiquitous in flats.

The threat of climate change was highlighted yesterday in a US government report, which predicted that its economy could lose, in the worst case, more than 10 per cent of its GDP by the end of the century if global warming goes unabated.

"We're not moving fast enough," said Mr Masagos, of global efforts.

Singapore has already pledged to reduce emissions intensity by 36 per cent from 2005 levels by 2030 - and how to do this is already in the works. It will enhance efforts to boost energy efficiency through more efficient lighting, cooling and home appliances. More of the nation's electricity will be from renewable sources, such as solar power.

The target is to increase power generation from solar to 350 megawatts-peak (MWp) by 2020 - about 5 per cent of Singapore's peak electricity demand - and towards 1 GWp beyond 2020.
Wind power and even tidal power are also options. "We have to try everything," Mr Masagos said.

When it comes to tackling pollution from vehicles, the drive is to "make sure that public transport would be people's first choice", he said. The aim is to expand the rail network to 360km by 2030, with eight in 10 households within a 10-minute walk of a train station.

To encourage industry to cut emissions, a carbon pricing scheme from next year will apply to major polluters with the money collected to co-fund efforts to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions and boost energy efficiency.

Singapore also needs to cut food and packaging waste as well as electronic waste, and is already working with producers to boost collection and recycling rates. "Today, we dispose something like 60,000 tonnes of e-waste - equivalent to each one of us throwing away 73 phones every year," said Mr Masagos.

Climate-friendly solutions also need not all be onerous, he pointed out, highlighting the environmentally friendly features of community and lifestyle centre Our Tampines Hub, where he is chairman of its advisory committee. The main atrium is cooled with fans, not air-conditioning, solar panels on the roof generate electricity for the carpark and a food digester in the basement turns food waste into water and compost, which is used to grow vegetables on the roof garden.

The hub, said Mr Masagos, is just the start. "Climate change has always sounded like a gloom-and-doom scenario but, really, there are a lot of opportunities."

What about Singapore's Asean neighbours, where electricity demand is set to double by 2025 to fuel growing economies?

"It is in our interest to not just do things for ourselves to fortify ourselves against climate change impacts, but also to rally everybody," said Mr Masagos. As Asean chair this year, Singapore had encouraged neighbours to embrace clean energy.

Many of Asean's larger members have invested heavily in coal-fired plants, locking in large amounts of carbon dioxide emissions and air pollution for years to come. It is a legacy that is hard to shake off, he added, because of the investment in the plants and pressure from vested interests.

But green energy is now more attractive, he added, because of the huge drop in the cost of wind and solar technology.

"The whole commitment on climate change is very difficult to achieve," said Mr Masagos.

"But if people embrace the way forward... it will be a new world for everybody, it will also be a better world."

*Copyright Singapore Press Holdings Limited. All rights reserved.*